doc: add Working with Thingy:53 section (#5518)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/ug_thingy53.rst

.. _ug_thingy53:

Working with Thingy:53
######################

Nordic Thingy:53 is a battery-operated prototyping platform for IoT Systems.

Thingy:53 integrates the following components:

* nRF5340 SoC - Supporting Bluetooth® Low Energy, 802.14.5 based protocols and Near Field Communication (NFC).
* nRF21540 RF FEM - Range extender with integrated power amplifier (PA)/low noise amplifier (LNA).
* nPM1100 PMIC - Power Management IC with integrated dual-mode buck regulator and batter charger.

You can find more information on the product on the `Thingy:53 product page`_ and in the Nordic Thingy:53 User Guide.
The |NCS| provides support for developing applications on the Thingy:53.

.. _thingy53_serialports:

Connecting to Thingy:53 serial ports
************************************

For connecting to Thingy:53, you use a serial terminal.

Thingy:53 uses the following UART baud rate configuration:

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :align: center

   * - UART Interface
     - Baud Rate
   * - UART
     - XXXXXXX

Firmware
********

> Nordic Thingy:53 comes pre-programmed with the Edge Impulse firmware, which allows the Thingy:53 to connect to Edge Impulse Studio over BLE using the nRF Edge Impulse mobile application or through USB on your PC.

Author: Preprogrammed. Good catch.

There are also multiple samples in the |NCS| that can be run on the Nordic Thingy:53.

.. _thingy53_precompiled_fw:

Programming precompiled firmware images
***************************************

Precompiled firmware image files are useful in the following scenarios:

* Restoring the firmware to its initial image.
* Updating the application firmware to a newly released version.
* Testing different features of the Nordic Thingy:53.

Downloading precompiled firmware images
=======================================

To obtain precompiled images for updating the firmware, perform the following steps:

1. Go to the `Thingy:53 product page`_ and under the :guilabel:`Downloads` tab, navigate to :guilabel:`Precompiled application and modem firmware`.
#. Download and extract the latest Thingy:53 firmware package.
#. Check the :file:`CONTENTS.txt` file in the extracted folder for the location and names of the different firmware images.

Quick programming of precompiled firmware images
================================================

> When you have the precompiled images ready, you can directly program the images onto the Thingy:53 using the nRF Connect Programmer app, which is available in nRF Connect for Desktop.

Reviewer: which or that?

In this method, the Thingy:53 is connected directly to your PC through USB.
This method makes use of the :doc:`mcuboot:index` feature and the built-in serial recovery mode of Thingy:53.

> It is also possible to use the nRF Programmer mobile application for Android or iOS to update the firmware over-the-air (OTA) using Bluetooth Low Energy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also use the nRF Programmer mobile application for Android or iOS to update the firmware over-the-air (OTA) using Bluetooth Low Energy.
```

> Alternatively, you can use an external debug probe such as the nRF5340 DK or any J-Link device supporting ARM Cortex-M33 to program firmware on a Thingy:53.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, you can use an external debug probe, such as the nRF5340 DK, or any J-Link device supporting ARM Cortex-M33 to program firmware on a Thingy:53.
```

> See `Updating Nordic Thingy:53 firmware`_ for the detailed procedures how to program a Thingy:53 using nRF Connect Programmer or the nRF Programmer for Android or iOS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See `Updating Nordic Thingy:53 firmware`_ for the detailed procedures on how to program a Thingy:53 using nRF Connect Programmer or the nRF Programmer for Android or iOS.
```

+-----------------------------+--------------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------+

There are multiple methods of programming a sample or application onto a Thingy:53.
You can choose the method based on the availability or absence of an external debug probe to program.

.. note::

   If you do not have an external debug probe available to program the Thingy:53, you can directly program the device over USB using the built-in MCUboot bootloader and nRF Connect Programmer.
   In this scenario, use the :file:`dfu_application.zip` file.

.. _thingy53_build_pgm_segger:

Building and programming using SEGGER Embedded Studio
*****************************************************

.. include:: gs_programming.rst
   :start-after: build_SES_projimport_open_start
   :end-before: build_SES_projimport_open_end

..

   .. figure:: images/ses_thingy_configuration.png
      :alt: Opening the Asset tracker application

      Opening the Asset tracker application for the thingy91_nrf9160_ns build target

   .. note::

>       The *Board Directory* folder can be found in the following location: ``ncs/nrf/boards/arm``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      The ``Board Directory`` folder is at ``ncs/nrf/boards/arm``.
```

.. _ug_thingy53:

Working with Thingy:53
######################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

Nordic Thingy:53 is a battery-operated prototyping platform for IoT Systems.

Thingy:53 integrates the following components:

* nRF5340 SoC - Supporting Bluetooth® Low Energy, 802.14.5 based protocols and Near Field Communication (NFC).

> * nRF21540 RF FEM - Range extender with integrated power amplifier (PA)/low noise amplifier (LNA).

Reviewer 2: low-noise amplifier
And actually I see that it is written in title case (Low-Noise Amplifier) in the Glossary, but I am not sure why..?

Author: I'll keep it lower case for now, and we can look into that in the improvements phase.

> * nPM1100 PMIC - Power Management IC with integrated dual-mode buck regulator and batter charger.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* nPM1100 PMIC - Power Management IC with integrated dual-mode buck regulator and battery charger.
```

There are multiple methods of programming a sample or application onto a Thingy:53.
You can choose the method based on the availability or absence of an external debug probe to program.

.. note::

   If you do not have an external debug probe available to program the Thingy:53, you can directly program the device over USB using the built-in MCUboot bootloader and nRF Connect Programmer.
   In this scenario, use the :file:`dfu_application.zip` file.

.. _thingy53_build_pgm_segger:

Building and programming using SEGGER Embedded Studio
*****************************************************

.. include:: gs_programming.rst
   :start-after: build_SES_projimport_open_start
   :end-before: build_SES_projimport_open_end

..

   .. figure:: images/ses_thingy_configuration.png
      :alt: Opening the Asset tracker application

      Opening the Asset tracker application for the thingy91_nrf9160_ns build target

   .. note::

      The *Board Directory* folder can be found in the following location: ``ncs/nrf/boards/arm``.

4. Click :guilabel:`OK` to import the project into SES.
   You can now work with the project in IDE.

> #. To build the sample or application:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Build the sample or application:
```

   a. Select your project in the Project Explorer.
   #. From the menu, select :guilabel:`Build` > :guilabel:`Build Solution`.
      This builds the project.

>    You can find the output of the build, which includes the merged HEX file containing both the application and the SPM, in the :file:`zephyr` subfolder in the build directery.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   You can find the output of the build, which includes the merged HEX file containing both the application and the SPM, in the :file:`zephyr` subfolder in the build directory.
```
Alternatively: The output of the build with the merged HEX file containing... is located...

> #. To program the sample or application:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Program the sample or application:
```

>    a. Connect the Thingy:53 to the debug out port on a 10-pin external debug probe, for example, nRF5340 DK (Development Kit), using a 10-pin JTAG cable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   a. Connect the Thingy:53 to the debug out port on a 10-pin external debug probe, for example nRF5340 DK (Development Kit), using a 10-pin JTAG cable.
```

   #. The device will reset and run the programmed sample or application.

Building and programming using Visual Studio Code
*************************************************

Complete the following steps after installing the `nRF Connect for VS Code`_ extension in Microsoft Visual Studio Code:

1. Open VS code.
#. Click on the :guilabel:`nRF Connect for VS Code` icon in the left navigation bar and then click :guilabel:`Open`.

   .. figure:: images/ug_thingy53_vscode_welcome.png
      :alt: nRF Connect for VS Code welcome page
      :width: 80%

      The welcome page for nRF Connect for VS Code.

#. Click on :guilabel:`Add an existing applicaton to workspace...`.
#. In the prompt, navigate to the folder containing the sample you want to build, such as :file:`nrf\\samples\\bluetooth\\peripheral_lbs`.
   You should now see the selected application in the :guilabel:`Applications` window in the lower left corner.

   .. note::

     The sample folder must contain a :file:`prj.conf` file.

   .. figure:: images/ug_thingy53_vscode_appwindow.png
      :alt: nRF Connect for VS Code, application shown in Application window
      :width: 80%

>       The peripheral_lbs application can now be seen in the :guilabel:`Application` window.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      The peripheral_lbs application is now available in the :guilabel:`Application` window.
```

#. Click on the :guilabel:`Add Build Configuration` button in the :guilabel:`Applications` window, or click on the text stating :guilabel:`No build configurations. Click to create one`.

>    This will open the :guilabel:`Generate Configuration` window in a new tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   This opens the :guilabel:`Generate Configuration` window in a new tab.
```

> #. Select the thingy53_nrf5340_cpuapp as the target board and click :guilabel:`Generate Config`, which generates the config file and triggers the build process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Select the ``thingy53_nrf5340_cpuapp`` as the target board and click :guilabel:`Generate Config`, which generates the configuration file and triggers the build process.
```

   .. figure:: images/ug_thingy53_vscode_genconfig1.png
      :alt: nRF Connect for VS Code, Generate Configuration window
      :width: 80%

      The :guilabel:`Generate Configuration` window, with thingy53_nrf5340_cpuapp as the board.

> #. Once the build configuration and the build are complete, an :guilabel:`Actions` window appears in the lower left corner of VS Code.
>    In this window you can trigger the build process, flash the built sample and start a debug session.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. When the build configuration and the build are complete, an :guilabel:`Actions` window appears in the lower left corner of VS Code.
   In this window, you can trigger the build process, program the built sample and start a debug session.
```

Reviewer: Is this a step?

Author: I understood this to be explanation of options, not a compulsory step. I changed the "and" to "or" to make it more clear.

   .. figure:: images/ug_thingy53_vscode_genconfig2.png
      :alt: nRF Connect for VS Code, Actions window
      :width: 80%

      The :guilabel:`Actions` window is open in the lower left corner

> #. To program the sample or application:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Program the sample or application as follows:
```

>    a. Connect the Thingy:53 to the debug out port on a 10-pin external debug probe, for example, nRF5340 DK (Development Kit), using a 10-pin JTAG cable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   a. Connect the Thingy:53 to the debug out port on a 10-pin external debug probe, for example nRF5340 DK, using a 10-pin JTAG cable.
```

   #. Connect the external debug probe to the PC using a USB cable.
   #. Make sure that the Thingy:91 and the external debug probe are powered on.
   #. Click :guilabel:`Flash`.

Building and programming on the command line
********************************************

Before you start building |NCS| projects on the command line, you must :ref:`build_environment_cli`.

To build and program the source code from the command line, complete the following steps:

1. Open a command line or terminal window.
#. Go to the specific directory for the sample or application.

   For example, the full directory path is :file:`ncs/nrf/applications/machine_learning` when building the source code for the :ref:`nrf_machine_learning_app` application.

#. Make sure that you have the required version of the |NCS| repository by pulling the ``sdk-nrf`` repository on GitHub as described in :ref:`dm-wf-get-ncs` and :ref:`dm-wf-update-ncs` sections.

> #. To get the rest of the dependencies, use west::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#.Get the rest of the dependencies using west::
```

      west update

> #. To build the sample or application code, run west as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Build the sample or application code as follows:
```

   .. parsed-literal::
      :class: highlight

      west build -b *build_target* -d *destination_directory_name*

>    For *build_target*, use either :file:`thingy53_nrf5340_cpuapp` or :file:`thingy53_nrf5340_cpuapp_ns` when building samples for the application core, or :file:`thingy53_nrf5340_cpunet` when building for the network core.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   For *build_target*, use:
   
   * file:`thingy53_nrf5340_cpuapp` or :file:`thingy53_nrf5340_cpuapp_ns` when building samples for the application core.
   * :file:`thingy53_nrf5340_cpunet` when building for the network core.
```

> #. To program the sample or application:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Program the sample or application as follows:
```

>    a. Connect the Thingy:53 to the debug out port on a 10-pin external debug probe, for example, nRF5340 DK (Development Kit), using a 10-pin JTAG cable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   a. Connect the Thingy:53 to the debug out port on a 10-pin external debug probe, for example nRF5340 DK, using a 10-pin JTAG cable.
```

   #. Connect the external debug probe to the PC using a USB cable.
   #. Make sure that the Thingy:91 and the external debug probe are powered on.
   #. Use the following command to program the sample or application to the device::

         west flash

>    The device will reset and run the programmed sample or application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The device resets and runs the programmed sample or application.
```

.. _ug_thingy53:

Working with Thingy:53
######################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

Nordic Thingy:53 is a battery-operated prototyping platform for IoT Systems.

Thingy:53 integrates the following components:

> * nRF5340 SoC - Supporting Bluetooth® Low Energy, 802.14.5 based protocols and Near Field Communication (NFC).

Reviewer 3: Maybe better:
```suggestion
* nRF5340 SoC - Supporting Bluetooth® Low Energy, IEEE 802.14.5 based protocols and Near Field Communication (NFC).
```

Author: Done.

* nRF21540 RF FEM - Range extender with integrated power amplifier (PA)/low-noise amplifier (LNA).
* nPM1100 PMIC - Power Management IC with integrated dual-mode buck regulator and battery charger.

For more information on the product, see the `Thingy:53 product page`_ and the `Nordic Thingy:53 User Guide`_.
The |NCS| provides support for developing applications on the Thingy:53.

.. _thingy53_serialports:

Connecting to Thingy:53 serial ports
************************************

For connecting to Thingy:53, use a serial terminal.

> Thingy:53 uses the following UART baud rate configuration:

Author: Does that mean the table below this line is not needed?

> Thingy:53 uses the following UART baud rate configuration:

Reviewer 4: When using USB you do not need to specify the baud rate, so i would remove this table - if we just want to focus on the main way of obtaining logs / having a shell which is using native USB.

> Thingy:53 uses the following UART baud rate configuration:

Reviewer 5: > When using USB you do not need to specify the baud rate

I think you still do need to specify baudrate on a terminal end. From the tools point of view it is still an UART.

Default for CDC ACM are:
```
115200bps, no parity, 1 stop bit, 8bit char
```

I think we stay on defaults. Right @MarekPieta ?

> Thingy:53 uses the following UART baud rate configuration:

Reviewer 4: I mean.. I don't put any baudrate which defaults to 9600 on `screen` for example, but any value works (just double-checked). However, if that makes easier life for the user we may leave it.

> Thingy:53 uses the following UART baud rate configuration:

Reviewer 5: Checked and you are right - it does not matter. On both ends it can be anything.
There is no point in specifying any values here - these will even lead to further confusion. 

Better to note that for CDC ACM baudrate is ignored and transfer goes with USB speed.

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :align: center

   * - UART Interface
     - Baud Rate
   * - UART
     - XXXXXXX

Firmware
********

Nordic Thingy:53 comes preprogrammed with the Edge Impulse firmware, which allows the Thingy:53 to connect to Edge Impulse Studio over Bluetooth LE using the nRF Edge Impulse mobile application or through USB on your PC.

> The firmware allows you to capture sensor data, which in turn you can be use to train and test machine learning models in Edge Impulse Studio.

Reviewer 6: Typeo: The firmware allows you to capture sensor data, which in turn you can be **used** to train...

Reviewer 2: which in turn you can use to train...
or
which in turn can be used to train...
:)

You can deploy trained machine learning models to the Nordic Thingy:53 through an over-the-air (OTA) update using Bluetooth LE or update over USB using nRF Connect Programmer.

> See the Nordic Semi Thingy:53 page in the Edge Impulse documentation on how to use the Nordic Thingy:53 with the nRF Edge Impulse mobile application and Edge Impulse Studio.

Reviewer 5: ```
See the Nordic Semi Thingy:53 page in the Edge Impulse documentation
```

Link would be helpful

Author: There is currently a Thingy:53 page, but I added a placeholder like the other links.

There are also multiple samples in the |NCS| that you can run on the Nordic Thingy:53.

.. _thingy53_precompiled_fw:

Programming precompiled firmware images
***************************************

Precompiled firmware image files are useful in the following scenarios:

* Restoring the firmware to its initial image.
* Updating the application firmware to a newly released version.
* Testing different features of the Nordic Thingy:53.

Downloading precompiled firmware images
=======================================

To obtain precompiled images for updating the firmware, perform the following steps:

> 1. Go to the `Thingy:53 product page`_ and under the :guilabel:`Downloads` tab, navigate to :guilabel:`Precompiled application and modem firmware`.

Reviewer 5: ```
and modem firmware
```
?

Reviewer 6: Should be "Precompiled applications".

Author: So there is no "and modem firmware" part?

Reviewer 7: Do you mean `network core firmware`?

Author: I mean, is the section title "Precompiled applicatons and modem firmware", or just "Precompiled applications".

Reviewer 5: > So there is no "and modem firmware" part?

Thingy53 has no modem so there cannot be a modem FW. There is a network core but this work differently. For starters each app can have different version of FW for net core.

> When you have the precompiled images ready, you can program the images directly onto the Thingy:53 using the nRF Connect Programmer applecation available in nRF Connect for Desktop.

Reviewer 5: s/applecation/application

Author: Fixed.

The Thingy:53 is connected directly to your PC through USB.
This method uses the :doc:`mcuboot:index` feature and the built-in serial recovery mode of Thingy:53.

> You can also use the nRF Programmer mobile application for Android or iOS to update the firmware over-the-air (OTA) using Bluetooth Low Energy.

Reviewer 5: This method assumes that application part of FW present on the Thingy53 does support it. All precompiled images support OTA using Bluetooth.

Author: Added mention of compatibility to OTA.

.. _thingy53_building_pgming:

Building and programming from the source code
*********************************************

You can also program the Thingy:53 by using the images obtained by building the code in an |NCS| environment.

To set up your system to be able to build a compatible firmware image, follow the :ref:`getting_started` guide for |NCS|.
The build targets of interest for Thingy:53 in |NCS| are as follows:

+--------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
|Component                       |  Build target                                            |
+================================+==========================================================+
| nRF5340 SoC - Application core |``thingy53_nrf5340_cpuapp`` for the secure domain         |
|                                |                                                          |
|                                |``thingy53_nrf5340_cpuapp_ns`` for the non-secure version |
+--------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+

> | nRF5340 SoC - Network core     |``thingy91_nrf52840``                                     |

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
| nRF5340 SoC - Network core     |``thingy53_nrf5340_cpunet``                                     |
```

The table below shows the different types of build files that are generated and the different scenarios in which they are used:

+-----------------------------+--------------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------+
| File                        | File format                          | Programming scenario                                               |
+=============================+======================================+====================================================================+
| :file:`merged.hex`          | Full image, HEX format               | Using an external debug probe and nRF Connect Programmer           |
+-----------------------------+--------------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------+
| :file:`app_signed.hex`      | MCUboot compatible image, HEX format | Using the built-in bootloader and nRF Connect Programmer           |
+-----------------------------+--------------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------+

> | :file:`app_update.bin`      | MCUboot compatible image, HEX format | Using the built-in bootloader and the mcumgr command line tool     |

Reviewer 5: there is also file for network core (`net_core_app_update.bin`)- if one is to update the board manually both images will have to be used.

This is important as we already know that our samples does not use compatible network core FW.

Reviewer 6: Correct. I forgot to add the net_core_app_update.bin to the list. The discription can be identical to the app_update_bin image.

+-----------------------------+--------------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------+
| :file:`dfu_application.zip` | MCUboot compatible image, binary     | Using nRF Programmer for Android and iOS or nRF Connect Programmer |
+-----------------------------+--------------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------+

There are multiple methods of programming a sample or application onto a Thingy:53.
You can choose the method based on the availability or absence of an external debug probe to program.

.. note::

>    If you do not have an external debug probe available to program the Thingy:53, you can directly program the device over USB using the built-in MCUboot bootloader and nRF Connect Programmer.

Reviewer 5: I would add a note here that this will work for thingy53 compatible samples (do we have list of these somewhere?)

Reviewer 6: Agreed.  Suggest changing it to:

 If you do not have an external debug probe available to program the Thingy:53, you can directly program Thingy:53 compatible samples to the device over USB using the built-in MCUboot bootloader and nRF Connect Programmer.
 
 Maybe the following list should be added somewhere in the Working with Thingy:53 section. 

-  nRF Machine Learning
- Thingy:53: Matter weather station
- Bluetooth: Peripheral LBS
- Bluetooth: Peripheral UART
- Bluetooth: Mesh light
- Bluetooth: Mesh light switch

Author: Added these directly to the note under "Some compatible samples"

   In this scenario, use the :file:`dfu_application.zip` file.

.. _thingy53_build_pgm_segger:

Building and programming using SEGGER Embedded Studio
*****************************************************

.. include:: gs_programming.rst
   :start-after: build_SES_projimport_open_start
   :end-before: build_SES_projimport_open_end

..

   .. figure:: images/ses_thingy53_configuration.png

>       :alt: Opening the Asset tracker application

Reviewer 5: `Opening the Asset tracker application`
This app will not work on thingy53, so we should not reference it

Reviewer 6: In my word draft this is nRF Machine Learning. Dont know if the draft has not been synced to OneDrive when the PR was created.

Author: The text was nRF Machine Learning, but the image showed Thingy:91 with the Asset Tracker app. I initially had all text match the image, but changed the image today but apparently missed one part of the text.

>       Opening the Asset tracker application for the thingy91_nrf9160_ns build target

Reviewer 2: The image is for the Thingy:91

Author: Fixed for Thingy:53.

   .. note::

      The ``Board Directory`` folder is at ``ncs/nrf/boards/arm``.

4. Click :guilabel:`OK` to import the project into SES.
   You can now work with the project in IDE.
#. Build the sample or application:

   a. Select your project in the Project Explorer.
   #. From the menu, select :guilabel:`Build` > :guilabel:`Build Solution`.
      This builds the project.

   The output of the build with the merged HEX file containing both the application and the SPM is located in the :file:`zephyr` subfolder in the build directory.

#. Program the sample or application:

   a. Connect the Thingy:53 to the debug out port on a 10-pin external debug probe, for example nRF5340 DK (Development Kit), using a 10-pin JTAG cable.
   #. Connect the external debug probe to the PC using a USB cable.

>    #. Make sure that the Thingy:91 and the external debug probe are powered on.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
   #. Make sure that the Thingy:53 and the external debug probe are powered on.
```

   This opens the :guilabel:`Generate Configuration` window in a new tab.
#. Select the ``thingy53_nrf5340_cpuapp`` as the target board and click :guilabel:`Generate Config`, which generates the configuration file and triggers the build process.

   .. figure:: images/ug_thingy53_vscode_genconfig1.png
      :alt: nRF Connect for VS Code, Generate Configuration window
      :width: 80%

      The :guilabel:`Generate Configuration` window, with ``thingy53_nrf5340_cpuapp`` as the board.

#. When the build configuration and the build are complete, an :guilabel:`Actions` window appears in the lower left corner of VS Code.
   In this window, you can trigger the build process, program the built sample or start a debug session.

   .. figure:: images/ug_thingy53_vscode_genconfig2.png
      :alt: nRF Connect for VS Code, Actions window
      :width: 80%

      The :guilabel:`Actions` window is open in the lower left corner

#. Program the sample or application:

   a. Connect the Thingy:53 to the debug out port on a 10-pin external debug probe, for example nRF5340 DK, using a 10-pin JTAG cable.
   #. Connect the external debug probe to the PC using a USB cable.

>    #. Make sure that the Thingy:91 and the external debug probe are powered on.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
   #. Make sure that the Thingy:53 and the external debug probe are powered on.
```

1. Open a command line or terminal window.
#. Go to the specific directory for the sample or application.

   For example, the full directory path is :file:`ncs/nrf/applications/machine_learning` when building the source code for the :ref:`nrf_machine_learning_app` application.

#. Make sure that you have the required version of the |NCS| repository by pulling the ``sdk-nrf`` repository on GitHub as described in :ref:`dm-wf-get-ncs` and :ref:`dm-wf-update-ncs` sections.
#. Get the rest of the dependencies using west::

      west update

#. Build the sample or application code as follows:

   .. parsed-literal::
      :class: highlight

      west build -b *build_target* -d *destination_directory_name*

   For *build_target*, use:

   * :file:`thingy53_nrf5340_cpuapp` or :file:`thingy53_nrf5340_cpuapp_ns` when building samples for the application core.
   * :file:`thingy53_nrf5340_cpunet` when building for the network core.

#. Program the sample or application:

   a. Connect the Thingy:53 to the debug out port on a 10-pin external debug probe, for example nRF5340 DK, using a 10-pin JTAG cable.
   #. Connect the external debug probe to the PC using a USB cable.

>    #. Make sure that the Thingy:91 and the external debug probe are powered on.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
   #. Make sure that the Thingy:53 and the external debug probe are powered on.
```

>    #. Use the following command to program the sample or application to the device::

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
   #. Use the following command to program the sample or application to the device:
```

Author: This is correct, it formats the command below.

.. _ug_thingy53:

Working with Thingy:53
######################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

Nordic Thingy:53 is a battery-operated prototyping platform for IoT Systems.

Thingy:53 integrates the following components:

* nRF5340 SoC - Supporting Bluetooth® Low Energy, 802.14.5 based protocols and Near Field Communication (NFC).
* nRF21540 RF FEM - Range extender with integrated power amplifier (PA)/low-noise amplifier (LNA).
* nPM1100 PMIC - Power Management IC with integrated dual-mode buck regulator and battery charger.

For more information on the product, see the `Thingy:53 product page`_ and the `Nordic Thingy:53 User Guide`_.
The |NCS| provides support for developing applications on the Thingy:53.

.. _thingy53_serialports:

Connecting to Thingy:53 serial ports
************************************

For connecting to Thingy:53, use a serial terminal.

> Thingy:53 uses USB transport and CDC ACM class.

Reviewer 7: I think we should also mention that Thingy:53 enables USB, registers os and img mgmt handlers groups and registers SMP over Bluetooth. That is done for all of the supported samples in NCS and I think it's better to mention it here once than to repeat this information for all of the Thingy:53 compatible samples.

> Thingy:53 uses USB transport and CDC ACM class.

Reviewer 6: @MarekPieta : Agreed, better to put the common information here.  Do have a suggestion on how to word this in the doc?

> Thingy:53 uses USB transport and CDC ACM class.

Reviewer 7: I will try to add introduce my changes as separate commit here or send them in other way to @wiba-nordic :)

> Thingy:53 uses USB transport and CDC ACM class.

Reviewer 7: I will switch to this one after I finish updating configurations

> Thingy:53 uses USB transport and CDC ACM class.

Reviewer 5: I think that second CDC ACM is sample specific and should not me mentioned here

The CDC ACM baudrate is ignored, and transfer goes with USB speed.

Firmware
********

Nordic Thingy:53 comes preprogrammed with the Edge Impulse firmware, which allows the Thingy:53 to connect to Edge Impulse Studio over Bluetooth LE using the nRF Edge Impulse mobile application or through USB on your PC.
The firmware allows you to capture sensor data, which in turn you can use to train and test machine learning models in Edge Impulse Studio.

> You can deploy trained machine learning models to the Nordic Thingy:53 through an over-the-air (OTA) update using Bluetooth LE or update over USB using nRF Connect Programmer.

Reviewer 2: I don't see this resolved, it's not reflected in the PR :)

> You can deploy trained machine learning models to the Nordic Thingy:53 through an over-the-air (OTA) update using Bluetooth LE or update over USB using nRF Connect Programmer.

Author: I didn't even notice the line break, just the comma in the end. Pushing now.

> You can deploy trained machine learning models to the Nordic Thingy:53 through an over-the-air (OTA) update using Bluetooth LE or update over USB using nRF Connect Programmer.

Reviewer 2: Hate to be picky... Closer now, but not quite there LOL Missing a comma in the second sentence. It just makes it a bit easier to read.

> You can deploy trained machine learning models to the Nordic Thingy:53 through an over-the-air (OTA) update using Bluetooth LE or update over USB using nRF Connect Programmer.

Author: I'll add it to the local version, and push it with the next change that comes along.

There are also multiple samples in the |NCS| that you can run on the Nordic Thingy:53.

.. _thingy53_precompiled_fw:

Programming precompiled firmware images
***************************************

Precompiled firmware image files are useful in the following scenarios:

* Restoring the firmware to its initial image.
* Updating the application firmware to a newly released version.
* Testing different features of the Nordic Thingy:53.

Downloading precompiled firmware images
=======================================

To obtain precompiled images for updating the firmware, perform the following steps:

1. Go to the `Thingy:53 product page`_ and under the :guilabel:`Downloads` tab, navigate to :guilabel:`Precompiled applications`.
#. Download and extract the latest Thingy:53 firmware package.
#. Check the :file:`CONTENTS.txt` file in the extracted folder for the location and names of the different firmware images.

Quick programming of precompiled firmware images
================================================

> When you have the precompiled images ready, you can directly program the images onto the Thingy:53 using the nRF Connect Programmer app available in nRF Connect for Desktop.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you have the precompiled images ready, you can directly program the images onto the Thingy:53 using the nRF Connect Programmer application available in nRF Connect for Desktop.
```

> In this method, the Thingy:53 is connected directly to your PC through USB.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Thingy:53 is connected directly to your PC through USB.
```

> This method makes use of the :doc:`mcuboot:index` feature and the built-in serial recovery mode of Thingy:53.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This method uses the :doc:`mcuboot:index` feature and the built-in serial recovery mode of Thingy:53.
```

See `Updating Nordic Thingy:53 firmware`_ for the detailed procedures on how to program a Thingy:53 using nRF Connect Programmer or the nRF Programmer for Android or iOS.

.. _thingy53_building_pgming:

Building and programming from the source code
*********************************************

You can also program the Thingy:53 by using the images obtained by building the code in an |NCS| environment.

To set up your system to be able to build a compatible firmware image, follow the :ref:`getting_started` guide for |NCS|.
The build targets of interest for Thingy:53 in |NCS| are as follows:

+--------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
|Component                       |  Build target                                            |
+================================+==========================================================+
| nRF5340 SoC - Application core |``thingy53_nrf5340_cpuapp`` for the secure domain         |
|                                |                                                          |

> |                                |``thingy53_nrf5340_cpuapp_ns`` for the non-secure version |

Reviewer 6: Yes, @wiba-nordic could we add a note below this table stating that building samples for the thingy53_nrf5340_cpuapp_ns target is not fully supported?

+--------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+
| nRF5340 SoC - Network core     |``thingy53_nrf5340_cpunet``                               |
+--------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------+

The table below shows the different types of build files that are generated and the different scenarios in which they are used:

+---------------------------------+--------------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------+
| File                            | File format                          | Programming scenario                                               |
+=================================+======================================+====================================================================+

> | :file:`merged.hex`              | Full image, HEX format               | Using an external debug probe and nRF Connect Programmer           |

Reviewer 6: I have been assuming that the samples are built for thingy53_nrf5340_cpuapp and my assumption was that the merged hex would then contain application, netcore image and MCUboot.

> | :file:`merged.hex`              | Full image, HEX format               | Using an external debug probe and nRF Connect Programmer           |

Reviewer 7: I think we should mention `merged_domains.hex` in that case. See my previous comment.

> | :file:`merged.hex`              | Full image, HEX format               | Using an external debug probe and nRF Connect Programmer           |

Author: Does the `merged.hex` stay, and `merged_domain.hex` is added to the table, then?

+---------------------------------+--------------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------+
| :file:`app_signed.hex`          | MCUboot compatible image, HEX format | Using the built-in bootloader and nRF Connect Programmer           |
+---------------------------------+--------------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------+
| :file:`app_update.bin`          | MCUboot compatible image, HEX format | Using the built-in bootloader and the mcumgr command line tool     |
+---------------------------------+--------------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------+
| :file:`net_core_app_update.bin` | MCUboot compatible image, HEX format | Using the built-in bootloader and the mcumgr command line tool     |
+---------------------------------+--------------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------+

> | :file:`dfu_application.zip`     | MCUboot compatible image, binary     | Using nRF Programmer for Android and iOS or nRF Connect Programmer |

Reviewer 5: I believe this should be documented somewhere else. We should add information about dfu_application.zip to a common DFU page. As for multiimage DFU this should also be described in common place as this work for entire rnf53 family and will possibly work for all multicore SoCs.
I expect this is however something that will be done after the release.
@greg-fer

+---------------------------------+--------------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------+

There are multiple methods of programming a sample or application onto a Thingy:53.
You can choose the method based on the availability or absence of an external debug probe to program.

.. note::

>    If you do not have an external debug probe available to program the Thingy:53, you can directly program compatible samples to the device over USB using the built-in MCUboot bootloader and nRF Connect Programmer.

Reviewer 5: We need to mention what "capable actually means" I think Marek will add section for what is needed to be considered compatible with bootloader.

   In this scenario, use the :file:`dfu_application.zip` file.

   Some compatible samples:

   * :ref:`nrf_machine_learning_app`
   * :ref:`matter_weather_station_app`
   * :ref:`peripheral_lbs`
   * :ref:`peripheral_uart`
   * :ref:`bluetooth_mesh_light`
   * :ref:`bluetooth_mesh_light_switch`

.. _thingy53_build_pgm_segger:

Building and programming using SEGGER Embedded Studio
*****************************************************

.. include:: gs_programming.rst
   :start-after: build_SES_projimport_open_start
   :end-before: build_SES_projimport_open_end

..

   .. figure:: images/ses_thingy53_configuration.png
      :alt: Opening the peripheral_lbs application

      Opening the ``peripheral_lbs`` application for the ``thingy53_nrf5340_cpuapp`` build target

   .. note::

      The ``Board Directory`` folder is at ``ncs/nrf/boards/arm``.

4. Click :guilabel:`OK` to import the project into SES.
   You can now work with the project in IDE.
#. Build the sample or application:

   a. Select your project in the Project Explorer.
   #. From the menu, select :guilabel:`Build` > :guilabel:`Build Solution`.
      This builds the project.

>    The output of the build with the merged HEX file containing both the application and the SPM is located in the :file:`zephyr` subfolder in the build directory.

Reviewer 6: Yes, the reference to SPM should be removed.  I guess the merged hex file would contain both application, net core image( hci_rpmsg) and MCUboot bootloader, when building for thingy53_nrf5340_cpuapp right?

#. Program the sample or application:

   a. Connect the Thingy:53 to the debug out port on a 10-pin external debug probe, for example nRF5340 DK (Development Kit), using a 10-pin JTAG cable.
   #. Connect the external debug probe to the PC using a USB cable.
   #. Make sure that the Thingy:53 and the external debug probe are powered on.
   #. in SES, select :guilabel:`Target` > :guilabel:`Connect J-Link`.

>    #. Select guilabel:`Target` > :guilabel:`Download zephyr/merged.hex` to program the sample or application onto Thingy:53.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   #. Select :guilabel:`Target` > :guilabel:`Download zephyr/merged.hex` to program the sample or application onto Thingy:53.
```

>    #. Select guilabel:`Target` > :guilabel:`Download zephyr/merged.hex` to program the sample or application onto Thingy:53.

Reviewer 6: Wouldnt the merged hex file would contain both application, net core image( hci_rpmsg) and MCUboot bootloader, when building for thingy53_nrf5340_cpuapp ?

>    #. Select guilabel:`Target` > :guilabel:`Download zephyr/merged.hex` to program the sample or application onto Thingy:53.

Reviewer 7: If I recall correctly, the `merged_domains.hex` contains application, net core image( hci_rpmsg) and MCUboot bootloader. This file is used when invoking west flash.
The merged.hex file does not containg network core image.

   #. Make sure that the Thingy:53 and the external debug probe are powered on.
   #. Click :guilabel:`Flash` in the :guilabel:`Actions` window.

Building and programming on the command line
********************************************

Before you start building |NCS| projects on the command line, you must :ref:`build_environment_cli`.

To build and program the source code from the command line, complete the following steps:

1. Open a command line or terminal window.
#. Go to the specific directory for the sample or application.

   For example, the full directory path is :file:`ncs/nrf/applications/machine_learning` when building the source code for the :ref:`nrf_machine_learning_app` application.

#. Make sure that you have the required version of the |NCS| repository by pulling the ``sdk-nrf`` repository on GitHub as described in :ref:`dm-wf-get-ncs` and :ref:`dm-wf-update-ncs` sections.
#. Get the rest of the dependencies using west::

      west update

#. Build the sample or application code as follows:

   .. parsed-literal::
      :class: highlight

      west build -b *build_target* -d *destination_directory_name*

>    For *build_target*, use:

Reviewer 6: Ok, then we can change *build_target* to thingy53_nrf5340_cpuapp?

| :file:`dfu_application.zip`     | MCUboot compatible image, binary     | Using nRF Programmer for Android and iOS or nRF Connect Programmer |
+---------------------------------+--------------------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------+

There are multiple methods of programming a sample or application onto a Thingy:53.
You can choose the method based on the availability or absence of an external debug probe to program.

.. note::

   If you do not have an external debug probe available to program the Thingy:53, you can directly program compatible samples to the device over USB using the built-in MCUboot bootloader and nRF Connect Programmer.
   In this scenario, use the :file:`dfu_application.zip` file.

   Some compatible samples:

   * :ref:`nrf_machine_learning_app`
   * :ref:`matter_weather_station_app`
   * :ref:`peripheral_lbs`
   * :ref:`peripheral_uart`
   * :ref:`bluetooth_mesh_light`
   * :ref:`bluetooth_mesh_light_switch`

.. _thingy53_app_guide:

Application guide
=================

> lorem ipsum

Reviewer 5: ?

Author: @MarekPieta will add content to that section, and I'll then squash his additions.
